Documentation mess :) (#2)
zodnrk/handout: handout.md

- twocolumn
...

# Maven
## Build tool
Maven is a powerful build tool for java projects.
It is used to manage and describe:

 - Standard life cycle for projects (compile, test, package, deploy)
 - Structuring projects (predefined file structure)
 - Definition and management of project dependencies
 - Version management of dependencies
 - Creation of projects from templates

Maven can scope dependencies to be included on:
 - Compilation
 - Runtime
 - Provided (only to compile, not on runtime. Example: Servlet API)
 - Test (dependency is only included for automated testing. Example: JUnit)

## Configuration file: pom.xml
The `pom.xml` is a **p**roject **o**bject **m**odel with xml format.

Example `pom.xml`
```xml
<project>
  <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
  <groupId>com.mycompany.app</groupId>
  <artifactId>my-app</artifactId>

>   <version>1</version>

Reviewer: `<version>` should probably be according to https://docs.oracle.com/middleware/1212/core/MAVEN/maven_version.htm#MAVEN400

Author: absolutely. My bad, I just copied the snipped from https://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-the-pom.html :see_no_evil:

  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.springframework</groupId>
      <artifactId>spring-core</artifactId>
      <version>5.2.9.RELEASE</version>
      </dependency>
  </dependencies>
</project>
```

While the dependencies are probably the most useful, but still optional feature of maven, the following properties are mandatory:

>  - `groupId`  - package path of the project

Reviewer: An empty newline is required before lists for them to work (except directly following headings)

which was developed by Linus Torvalds in 2005
because the current VCS used for Linux Kernel development
was no longer sufficient.

> ^[[git-scm.com A short history](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-A-Short-History-of-Git)]

Reviewer: This was intended as a footnote/reference.
I would leave this out entirely otherwise.

Author: ah sorry, I didn't knew the syntax for footnotes... I'll revert it.

Author: hmmm, this somehow confuses syntax highlighting in vim...

Reviewer: That specific case works for my vim, but with large MD documents it does sometimes get confused.
Especially with cursive/bold font.

* Efficiently handle large projects

## Quick Start Guide

> * Get and install git: [https://git-scm.com/downloads](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

Reviewer: Prettify displayed links
```suggestion
* Get and install git: [https://git-scm.com/downloads](git-scm.com/downloads)
```

* `git clone git@github.com/dude/project` - get a local copy of the project
* `git fetch` - get the latest changes from the server, without applying them to your working copy
* `git status` - list the changes on your working copy and show, if they are included in your next commit
* `git add <pathspec>` - add the specified file (also multiple files and globing allowed) to the next commit (stage the file)

> * `git rm --cached <pathspec>` - remove the specified file from the commit list (unstage the file), but keep the local changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `git restore --staged <pathspec>` - remove the specified file from the commit list (unstage the file), but keep the local changes
```

`rm --cached` removes the specified file from the index.

* `git commit -m <message>` - commit the staged files and add the specified commit message
* `git diff` - show changes between the latest commit and the working copy
* `git push` - send the commits of the current branch to the repository
* `git pull` - get the latest commits of the current branch from the repository
* `git checkout <branch>` - switch to the specified branch. Use `-b` to create a new branch

## Version Control
Version control systems (VCS) serve mainly two purposes: 
1) Keeping track of every change that happens to the code
2) Facilitate simultaneous edition (by multiple programmers) of the same project

Thanks to VCS it is possible to easily revert to any revision ever made, find out when exactly a feature (or bug) was introduced etc. Further more, it is also possible to see, who wrote what and when.

> The fantastic merging capabilities introduced with Git enable programmers to easily unify their working copies without overwriting each others changes. This outstanding feature made git the most popular VCS today. Still, every programmer has its own version, but git simplifies merging these versions into a new, combined one.

Reviewer: It's usually more convenient to split long paragraphs or sentences over multiple lines (makes editing and diffing easier).
A new paragraph is only introduced with an entirely blank line.
A displayed newline within a paragraph can be achieved by adding two spaces (0x20) to the end of a line.

Author: I was just to lazy, but took `:%!fmt -80 -s` to the rescue.

## Branching Model
Apart of the very source of truth, the `main` (or `master`) branch, git allows to have some diverging source trees called branches. Branches allow to make and test some changes, without messing with the main code. A branch can be imagined as if it would be a completely separated copy of the code.

> It is very common to develop new features in a dedicated branch. This brings the advantage, that p.ex. an unfinished feature doesn't block the development of a hot-fix in the main branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is very common to develop new features in a dedicated branch. This brings the advantage, that e.g. an unfinished feature doesn't block the development of a hot-fix in the main branch.
```

https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/exempli_gratia

Author: thanks. learned something :100:

\newpage
![](img/xkcd_1597.png)

[Image Credit: [xkcd.com/1597](https://xkcd.com/1597/)]

> ![Branching model](img/git-branching-model.png)

Reviewer: Image is not in the repo
